## My Latest Feed

<!-- feed starts -->
Terence Tao on applying Blue team vs Red team concepts to LLMs:

>
>In the field of cybersecurity, a distinction is made between the "blue team" task of building a secure system, and the "red team" task of locating vulnerabilities in such systems.  The blue team is more obviously necessary to create the desired product; but the red team is just as essential, given the damage that can result from deploying insecure systems.
>
>	The nature of these teams mirror each other; mathematicians would call them "dual".  The output of a blue team is only as strong as its weakest link: a security system that consists of a strong component and a weak component (e.g., a house with a securely locked door, but an open window) will be insecure (and in fact worse, because the strong component may convey a false sense of security).  Dually, the contributions to a red team can often be additive: a red team report that contains both a serious vulnerability and a more trivial one is more useful than a report that only contains the serious issue, as it is valuable to have the blue team address both vulnerabilities. (But excessive low-quality reports can dilute attention from critical issues.) 
>
>	Because of this, unreliable contributors may be more useful in the "red team" side of a project than the "blue team" side, though the blue team can still accommodate such contributors provided that the red team is competent enough to catch almost all of the errors that the contributor to the blue team might make.  Also, unreliable red team contributions only add value if they _augment_ the output of more reliable members of that team, rather than _replace_ that output, and if their output can be effectively filtered or triaged by more experienced red team members. (1/3)
>
>	The blue team / red team distinction extends beyond cybersecurity to many other disciplines as well.  In software engineering, for instance, "blue teaming" might correspond to the generation of new computer code, while "red teaming" would consist of such tasks as quality assurance and testing of such code.  In mathematics, "blue teaming" could involve coming up with speculative ideas to solve a math problem, while "red teaming" checks the arguments for formal errors, and also raises heuristic objections to a blue team approach being viable.  (See also my discussion about "local" and "global" errors in mathematics at https://terrytao.wordpress.com/advice-on-writing-papers/on-local-and-global-errors-in-mathematical-papers-and-how-to-detect-them/ ).  
>
>	I like to refer to these two teams in mathematics as the "optimists" and "pessimists"; in my experience, the strongest collaborations arise when there is a roughly equal split between the optimists and pessimists in the collaborations.  (Depending on the collaboration, I myself have sometimes played the optimist, sometimes the pessimist, and sometimes a mixture of both.) (2/3)
>
>	Many of the proposed use cases for AI tools try to place such tools in the "blue team" category, such as creating code, text, images, or mathematical arguments in some semi-automated or automated fashion, that is intended for use for some external application.  However, in view of the unreliability and opacity of such tools, it may be better to put them to work on the "red team", critiquing the output of blue team human experts but not directly replacing that output; "blue team" AI use should only be permitted up to the capability of one's "red team" to catch and correct any errors generated.   This approach not only plays to current AI strengths, such as breadth of exposure and fast feedback, but also mitigates the risks of deploying unverified AI output in high-stakes settings.
>
>	In my own personal experiments with AI, for instance, I have found it to be useful for providing additional feedback on some proposed text, argument, code, or slides that I have generated (including this current text).  I might only agree with a fraction of the suggestions generated by the AI tool; but I find that there are still several useful comments made that I do agree with, and incorporate into my own output.  This is a significantly less glamorous or intuitive use case for AI than the more commonly promoted "blue team" one of directly automating one's own output, but one that I find adds much more reliable value. (3/3)


[via Mastodon](https://mathstodon.xyz/@tao/114915604830689046)  -- 2025-07-30T10:18:04.780Z

---

Quoting Tim Sweeney on monitors

> if you’re gonna spend 4500 hours per year in front of a monitor, buy the best.


ref: https://x.com/timsweeneyepic/status/1949224032827846954?s=46  -- 2025-07-27T17:30:04.983Z

---

Uncle Bob on SQL

> SQL was never intended to be used by computer programs. It was a console language for printing reports. Embedding it into programs was one of the gravest errors of our industry.


ref: https://x.com/unclebobmartin/status/1917410469150597430  -- 2025-07-25T17:30:04.929Z

---

the only thing about A.I. prompting that bothers me is that I'm not thinking... 

i'm not in flow state. 

it's like im constantly being interrupted by slop. 

i don't mind being wrong and retrying...

it's always like here's the requirement, here's the function signature, now give full function. I just copy and paste, test, review, git commit.

it's lovely for small bug fixes, not great for learning something.

i get why technical founders who are looking to increase customer-value per effort really love it. 

using A.I. forces you to be an owner looking for value. 

the denominator is falling exponentially. i need to change by mindset.  -- 2025-07-25T13:09:05.699Z

---

Quoting Paul Graham on starting a software startup:

> If you want to start a software startup, you should still learn to program. Even if AI writes most of your code, you'll still be in the position of an engineering manager, and to be a good engineering manager you have to be a programmer yourself.

> But there's another even more important reason to learn to program. That's how you get ideas for startups: when you look around the world with a programmer's eye, you see all the things that could be built but haven't been yet.

If you have the ability to exercise agency, you will find a way to get things done. The easiest way to get things done is do it first in your head. 

ref: https://x.com/paulg/status/1947639333214687700  -- 2025-07-22T13:39:22.071Z

---

it's not agi if it starts every reply with "you're absolutely right"  -- 2025-07-22T01:16:05.206Z

---

i really wish @x had a free tier API access to retrieve bookmarks.  -- 2025-07-20T17:30:02.646Z

---

advice to young kids by john carmack:

>"knowledge and depth"
>"through and through"
>"find inefficiencies that can be bypassed"
>"its not necessary, be reliable, do quality work"
>"but people who do have inclination to doing things deeper, there are layers of things out there, it's amazing"
>"it's better than ever"
>"whole new worlds to explore"
>"hard work, understand as much as you can"
>"you will make more total progress, by telling yourself that there is a whole broad world around me"
>"preparing myself with broad tools and im being aware of change"
>"looking for opportunies to deploy the tools you've built"
>"go deeper and bypass inefficiencies"
>"make things better"  -- 2025-07-20T14:32:30.407Z

---

Salvatore Sanfilippo uses Gemini 2.5 Pro / Claude to fix vector set bugs in redis core.

Here are some excerpts that I found interesting:

>The most famous LLMs are not the best. Coding activities should be performed mostly with:
>
>* Gemini 2.5 PRO
>* Claude Opus 4
>
>Gemini 2.5 PRO is, in my experience, semantically more powerful. Can spot more complex bugs, reason about more complex problems. Claude Opus may be better at writing new code sometimes (sometimes not), the user interface is more pleasant, and in general you need at least two LLMs to do some back and forth for complex problems in order to enlarge your (human) understanding of the design space. If you can pick just one, go for Gemini 2.5 PRO.

I have been using only chatGPT whenever I use an LLM to help me get some coding/knowledge work done. Looks like I gotta start using Gemini 2.5 pro now.

> Always be part of the loop by moving code by hand from your terminal to the LLM web interface: this guarantees that you follow every process.
> You are still the coder, but augmented.

I too prefer keeping my llm answers in my terminal or web browser itself.
I don't use A.I. in my IDE (vscode and sometimes neovim) because I like to keep control on what goes in my editor.

full post: https://antirez.com/news/154  -- 2025-07-20T13:52:11.441Z

---

back in my day, vibe coding meant copy-pasting code from stackoverflow.
 -- [🏞️ Context #1](https://cpx.tnvmadhav.me/content/image/content-images/image_Hoo9WkF.png) -- 2025-07-20T09:40:39.377Z
<!-- feed ends -->

NOTE: This feed is a sliding window. One can find [a significant portion of a feed archive on my website](https://tnvmadhav.me/feed/).

---


<table><tr><td valign="top" width="33%">

## Latest Blog Posts

<!-- blog starts -->
[Pieces of Media That I Often Have Thought About](https://tnvmadhav.me/blog/pieces-of-media-that-i-often-have-thought-about/) -- 2024-12-29T10:28:06+00:00

[White Screen of Death on my iPhone](https://tnvmadhav.me/blog/white-screen-of-death-on-my-iphone/) -- 2024-09-22T10:00:35+00:00

[Dynamic Feed on My Github Profile](https://tnvmadhav.me/blog/dynamic-feed-on-my-github-profile/) -- 2024-08-03T08:16:05+00:00

[Custom R.S.S. Feed Format in Hugo](https://tnvmadhav.me/blog/custom-rss-feed-format-in-hugo/) -- 2024-07-28T10:49:57+00:00

[Jojo's Bizzare Adventure Season 5 Episode 28](https://tnvmadhav.me/blog/jojos-bizzare-adventure-season-5-episode-28/) -- 2024-07-12T16:29:41+00:00

More on [MY BLOG POSTS](https://tnvmadhav.me/blog/)
<!-- blog ends -->

</td><td valign="top" width="34%">

## Latest Guides

<!-- guide starts -->
[Fzf for Code Review](https://tnvmadhav.me/guides/fzf-for-code-review/) -- 2025-06-22T10:52:58+00:00

[On Using Godoc tool for your Go Programs](https://tnvmadhav.me/guides/on-using-godoc-tool/) -- 2024-08-07T08:18:53+00:00

[How to Perform Null Checks for Structs in Golang?](https://tnvmadhav.me/guides/how-to-perform-null-checks-for-structs-in-golang/) -- 2024-02-03T16:10:53+00:00

[How to Build a Simple Websocket Server and Client in Go and Javascript?](https://tnvmadhav.me/guides/how-to-build-a-simple-websocket-server-and-client-in-go/) -- 2023-12-16T14:14:18+00:00

[How to Use Buttons in SwiftUI?](https://tnvmadhav.me/guides/how-to-use-buttons-in-swiftui/) -- 2023-10-26T04:06:07+00:00

More on [MY GUIDES](https://tnvmadhav.me/guides/)
<!-- guide ends -->

</td><td valign="top" width="33%">

## Latest TILs

<!-- til starts -->
[Rosetta 2: Apple's Temporary Fix](https://tnvmadhav.me/til/rosetta-2/) -- 2025-06-22T08:16:35+00:00

[Http Archiving -- Capturing a moment in time](https://tnvmadhav.me/til/http-archiving/) -- 2025-02-23T09:43:37+00:00

[V.S. Code Has a Simple Browser](https://tnvmadhav.me/til/vscode-has-a-simple-browser/) -- 2025-02-22T09:15:32+00:00

[About SSH Host Key Verification](https://tnvmadhav.me/til/ssh-host-key-verification/) -- 2024-09-12T15:11:31+00:00

[Network Address Types in Postgres](https://tnvmadhav.me/til/network-address-types-in-postgres/) -- 2024-09-10T04:03:27+00:00

More on [My TILS](https://tnvmadhav.me/til/)
<!-- til ends -->

</td></tr></table>


All credits of this idea to [Simon Willison](https://github.com/simonw/simonw/).